---
title: T200 Solution
date: March 25, 2025
author: Ahmed Shaikh
position: CEO
avatar: AS
tags: aa
images: assets/blog/images/t200_thrusttest_results.png
---

A major hurdle we encountered when conducting our thrust test for the T200s was that motors were inexplicably stalling. Specifically, 3 out of our 8 thrusters were showing major issues with stalling and proved to be completely unreliable. Upon some further investigation and troubleshooting, we found that the problem was very unusual for three reasons:

1. Thrusters were stalling regardless of their age/corrosion. A brand new thruster was also stalling
2. Swapping out the ESCs did not make a difference and the PWM signals coming from the Raspberry Pi Pico were perfect
3. Sometimes thrusters wouldn’t work at a specific PWM value but would at others. Specifically, turning thrusters in reverse seemed to be a challenge

I decided to consult the Blue Robotics forums to see if I could find a solution. I got a prompt reply from Blue Robotics engineer Tony White who suggested that the issue was most likely in the wiring of the electronics. He advised me to check that I had a common ground between my Raspberry Pi Pico and the ESC and T200 thruster, as well as informing me that long alligator clips could be creating an issue in my power supply. Upon fixing both of these things, it seemed to be the alligator clips that were causing the issue. When creating a direct connection between the ESC and T200 phase wires, the issue disappeared for the new thruster. However, the older thrusters were still having some slight stalling, and I believe this is due to the immense corrosion in the phase wires. I tried stripping the wires down as much as I could, but at least one of them would remain corroded even close to the base. We will need to strip the wires of these faulty thrusters all the way down until the corrosion is gone and extend all the wires to the length of one metre by soldering on fresh 18AWG cable. 
