---
title: T200 Thrust Test Setup
date: March 20, 2025
author: David Zhang
position: CTO
avatar: DZ
tags:
images: assets/blog/images/t200-thrust1.jpg, assets/blog/images/t200-thrust2.jpg, assets/blog/images/t200-thrust3.jpg
---
Throughout the year, I emphasized to our main software engineer, Ahmed, how important it was for us to be able to stabilize the ROV with PID as most high-scoring teams on the product demonstration had something like that, and it makes sense for many precision tasks that came out. However, we already came across multiple problems. A mentor that has a PhD in ROVs came up to us telling us how our max current draw is extremely low and it was important to assume maximum thrust from all thrusters to divide the current draw for each. We later on asked other teams on the Discord server, and they disagreed, saying that we should assume that there is no limit until it exceeds the limit, which it should then split the current (probably because this is a pool competition rather than an actual ROV). I’m not too sure about the specifics, but I believe it was also important to know the general thrust output of each thruster based on the PWM signal in case they were different. I watched a video from the [Brick Experiment Channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9_amdMnDMS4&t=784s) that has a clever solution to measuring the force applied. Thus, we created a setup like shown below, where we used lego to connect a [3D printed part](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rAXnbbyropwywJ70RbUwuPj-ToULuszI/view?usp=sharing) that is bolted on to the T200. There were a few problems with this setup that we are planning on improving. At the start, the T200 didn’t run because of problems with the code. Then, when it ran, it was stalling (like sometimes twitching, sometimes moving), but when we rotated it the other way, it spun normally. So, Omar kickstarted the T200 by moving it and it spun normally. Also, the lego extends out from the scale and is connected by tape, the [scale tilts](https://youtube.com/shorts/yziKkib4t5Q) due to the T200. 

Thus, we will improve the setup by adding weights on one side and redo everything. 
